Create k8s-log-reviewer.md for logging review process (#9037)
kubernetes/community: contributors/devel/sig-instrumentation/k8s-log-reviewer/SKILL.md

Review a `kubernetes/kubernetes` PR the way a **SIG-Instrumentation approver** would for **logging**
changes. 

This skill reviews **only** logging-relevant changes. If the PR doesn't touch logging, say so and stop.
(For metrics, use `sig-instrumentation-metrics-review` instead.)

## Step 1 — Get the change
- A PR number/URL → `gh pr view <n> --repo kubernetes/kubernetes` + `gh pr diff <n> --repo kubernetes/kubernetes`.
- A local branch → `git diff` against the merge base. A pasted diff → use directly.
- No `gh`/auth → GitHub API (`/repos/kubernetes/kubernetes/pulls/<n>/files`) or ask for the diff.

## Step 2 — Scope to logging
In-scope signals (any of):
- Adds/changes `klog.*` calls (`InfoS`, `ErrorS`, `Info`, `Infof`, `V(n)`, `KObj`, `KRef`,
  `FromContext`, `Background`, `TODO`), or `logr.Logger` usage.
- Adds a `logger`/`ctx` parameter or a `…WithLogger` variant for contextual logging.
- Edits `hack/logcheck.conf`, `hack/tools` logcheck/logtools versions, or golangci-lint logging linters.
- Touches `k8s.io/component-base/logs` (incl. JSON logging) or `ktesting`.

If none apply, report "not a logging change — out of scope" and stop.

## Step 3 — Review checklist

> For each finding cite file:line and tag **BLOCKER** / **NIT** / **QUESTION**.

Reviewer: Not a blocker for this PR, just a general observation: people dumping a single AI review back into a top-level comment put the work of correlating the finding back to source code on the ~~maintainer~~ developer. It also doesn't enable per-finding discussion threads in the PR review.

If this becomes more common, we may have to make it clear that such reviews are not desirable.

OTOH, they offload work from the bottleneck (maintainer) to the person who presumably has more time (contributor).

🤷

Author: > 1. AI reviews

As just added [here](https://github.com/CatherineF-dev/community/blob/461d4ef0c395d37e2b175d5250cc372e3449dab9/contributors/devel/sig-instrumentation/README.md),
 **Human Review Required:** All suggestions, checklists, and reports generated by these agent skills **must be reviewed and verified by a human** before being posted as comments on any pull request.

>  2. top-level comments

Inline comments are possible. 

```
gh api repos/{owner}/{repo}/pulls/{pr_number}/comments \
  -f body="Your comment text here" \
  -f commit_id="<commit_sha>" \
  -f path="path/to/file.ext" \
  -F line=42 \
  -f side="RIGHT"
```

> 3. if a contributor runs an AI review themselves to polish their PR before requesting a maintainer's review

Currently, sig-instrumentation reviewers will choose and post comments after manual review.

Reviewer: Can `gh api` also start a review, i.e. keep the comment pending?

The perfect workflow would be:
- Let AI do an initial pass, generating pending comments on findings.
- Maintainer double-checks those pending comments and publishes the review.

Author: > Let AI do an initial pass, generating pending comments on findings.
Maintainer double-checks those pending comments and publishes the review.

Yes, that's the workflow we plan to use since github supports draft/pending comments.  We want to evaluate its values first. We will update the skill over time to optimize the review flow.

Author: @pohly 
I created a review tool that it loads related review skills based on context and added draft comment. Then I can accept/edit/reject the comment, then these comments will be posted into github. We might switch review tool to another one, but the review skills keep the same.

<img width="2453" height="1109" alt="Screenshot 2026-07-10 at 9 40 20 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bee61f0b-87b2-4c84-957f-dafc50091ba3" />

<img width="2446" height="1103" alt="Screenshot 2026-07-10 at 9 56 19 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2e76dd79-457d-4892-b85b-7192ef710a99" />

### A. Structured form
- **BLOCKER**: new unstructured `klog.Info/Infof/Errorf/Warningf` in a migrated package — use

>   `InfoS`/`ErrorS`. `ErrorS(err, msg, kv...)` takes the error **first** (may be nil only when there's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `InfoS`/`ErrorS`. `ErrorS(err, msg, kv...)` takes the error **first**. Use it for log output that needs admin attention,  otherwise prefer `InfoS`. `ErrorS` may be called with nil error. `InfoS` may be called with `"err": err` to log an error.
```

  genuinely no error).
- Message must be a **constant string** (no `fmt.Sprintf`), capitalized, no trailing punctuation/newline.
- Keys are **lowerCamelCase**, stable, and reused (don't invent a new key for an existing concept).
- Object values use `klog.KObj(obj)` / `klog.KRef(ns, name)`, not `%s`/`%v` formatting.

### B. Contextual logging (KEP-3077)
- Obtain the logger from context: `logger := klog.FromContext(ctx)`; libraries receive a logger via
  ctx rather than calling `klog.Background()`.
- New public functions that log should accept `ctx`/`logger`; prefer extending an unreleased signature

>   over adding a `…WithLogger` twin. Carry the convention comment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- New public functions that log should accept `ctx`/`logger`. A `ctx` is preferred if the function supports cancellation, otherwise a `logger`.
```

This part about "unreleased signature" and "carry the convention comment" isn't clear. I suspect it refers to one special case that isn't generally applicable. Let's keep the skill simple.
